---
title: Files
---

precisionFDA allows users to upload files from thier computer, generate them by running apps, or share them with the precisionFDA community.

## Files & Folders
Every file has an ID starting with `file-`. This ID is used throughout the precisionFDA system.

### Creating a Folder
To add a folder click the **Add folder** button to create a sub-folder in the current location, then enter a name.

### Selected Items
Each file or folder has a checkbox on the left. Select one or more items to perform an action on them. By using the **Actions** dropdown (top right)

### Actions
When one or more items are selected, click **Actions** (top right) to:
- **Move** them to another folder.
- **Publish** them (and any files inside selected folders).
- **Delete** them (a confirmation dialog will appear).
- **Download** them (a dialog will allow you to download each file individually).
- ...more

### Moving Items
You can organize files into folders to keep related items together.
- Move files into a folder by selecting files or folders and dragging them onto a folder. Alternativy you can use **Move** action form the **Actions** dropdown, and picking a destination folder.

## Uploading files

You can upload small files directly from your web browser by clicking "Add files". Choose the files you want to upload, and click "Upload all" to begin the upload to cloud storage. To ensure integrity, your web browser will automatically calculate a checksum of the uploaded content and ensure that it matches the checksum calculated on the cloud side.

Once the upload is complete, the system will perform some additional finalization. This process usually takes a few seconds, during which the file is in a "closing" state. After finalization is completed, the file becomes "closed" and can now be used within precisionFDA (downloaded, published, or provided as input in apps). Its contents can never be changed, and it is given a unique, immutable id of the form "file-Bk0kjkQ0ZP01x1KJqQyqJ7yq" to distinguish it across the whole site.

If the upload gets interrupted for any reason, you will see the partially-uploaded file in your list of files, marked with an "open" state. Please delete the file and reupload it. Periodically, the precisionFDA system may automatically clean up partially uploaded files.

> [!info] Tip
> Web browsers have limitations with regards to their upload capabilities. Therefore, you should only use the browser-based method for small files. Read below for additional options if you have large data to upload.

For large files that are accessible over the Internet, we suggest running the "Fetch file from URL" app, which has been provided by the precisionFDA team. The app allows you to fetch a file from a given URL.

For large files that are on your computer, we suggest using the **precisionFDA CLI**, a command-line tool capable of uploading with multiple threads and more resilient to transient errors. The precisionFDA CLI can be used for both files and app assets, and it's available through the [CLI docs](/guides/cli) page.

Visit that page and download the precisionFDA CLI for your operating system and architecture by clicking the respective button under "Step 3".

The tool requires an "authorization key" in order to authenticate the client against the precisionFDA system. You can get a key by clicking the respective button under "Step 4" in the "Add Assets" page. Copy the key from that page and paste it in the command below where it says **KEY**. For your security, the key is valid for 24h.

Run `./pfda upload-file -key KEY -file /path/to/file`in a Unix/Linux environment, or `"C:\path\to\pfda\executable\pfda.exe" upload-file -key KEY -file "C:\path\to\filename"` for a Windows environment. This command will upload the file to precisionFDA.

> [!info] Tip
> The CLI saves your key in `$HOME/.pfda_config`, so after you have run it once, you don't need to specify the key in subsequent invocations.

The CLI can do a lot more than uploading assets, please see the [Command Line Interface documentation page](/guides/cli)

## Examining file origin

The system automatically records the origin of files. The "origin" column describes how each file got introduced to precisionFDA; it is set to "Uploaded" if the file was directly uploaded; otherwise it points to a [job](/guides/apps#job-details) if the file was generated by running an app. Further information can be obtained using the [tracking feature](/guides/tracking).

## File details

Clicking on a filename in the files list (or on other file links that appear in certain precisionFDA areas) takes you to the file details page, which shows information such as filename, unique id, size, creation time, and origin. In addition, if the file has been used as input to any [comparisons](/guides/comparisons) or has been attached to any [notes](/guides/notes), those will also be visible in respective sub-sections.

This page shows one or more action buttons, depending on the file state and your permissions:

| Click...       | In order to...                                                                                                                                |
|----------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Attach to...   | Attach the file to a note. See the [notes](/guides/notes) section for more info.                                                                               |
| Open           | Open the file inline in your browser (if your browser supports it). Use this action to see the content of text files, PDF files, images, etc. |
| Download       | Download the file right away via your browser.                                                                                                |
| Authorized URL | Generate an authorized URL via which the file can be downloaded non-interactively.                                                            |
| Track          | Display a graph [tracking](/guides/tracking) the file's provenance. See Tracking for more info.                                                                   |
| Publish        | Publicly contribute the file to the precisionFDA community. See [Publishing](/guides/publishing) for more info.                                                     |
| Delete         | Permanently remove the file from precisionFDA.                                                                                                |
